src/posts/Markdown Reference.md, before:

---
layout: layout.njk
title: Markdown Reference
date: 2025-08-09
---

# Markdown Reference

A comprehensive, practical reference to see how common Markdown features render in this site.

- [Headings](#headings)
- [Paragraphs & Line Breaks](#paragraphs--line-breaks)
- [Emphasis](#emphasis)
- [Blockquotes](#blockquotes)
- [Lists](#lists)
- [Code](#code)
- [Tables](#tables)
- [Horizontal Rules](#horizontal-rules)
- [Links](#links)
- [Images](#images)
- [Footnotes](#footnotes)
- [Definition Lists](#definition-lists)
- [Inline HTML](#inline-html)
- [Details/Collapsible](#detailscollapsible)
- [Escaping](#escaping)
- [Math (raw)](#math-raw)
- [Longform Paragraphs](#longform-paragraphs)

## Headings

# H1 Heading
## H2 Heading
### H3 Heading
#### H4 Heading
##### H5 Heading
###### H6 Heading

## Paragraphs & Line Breaks

This is a paragraph of text. It should wrap naturally based on CSS.

This is another paragraph separated by a blank line.

Line breaks can be added with two spaces at the end of a line.  
This line should appear directly below the previous one.

## Emphasis

Regular text, with variations:

- Italic with asterisks: *italic*
- Italic with underscores: _italic_
- Bold with double asterisks: **bold**
- Bold with double underscores: __bold__
- Bold and italic: ***bold italic***
- Strikethrough (GFM): ~~strikethrough~~
- Inline code: `const answer = 42;`

## Blockquotes

> This is a blockquote. It can span multiple lines to form a single block.
>
> Add blank quote lines to separate paragraphs within a quote.

Nested blockquotes:

> Parent quote
>> Child quote
>>> Grandchild quote

## Lists

Unordered list:

- Item A
- Item B
  - Nested item B.1
  - Nested item B.2
- Item C

Ordered list (numbers can be arbitrary, but render sequentially):

1. First
1. Second
1. Third
   1. Third-A
   1. Third-B

Task list (GFM):

- [ ] To do item
- [x] Completed item
- [ ] Another item

## Code

Inline code has been shown above. Fenced code blocks with language hints below.

```javascript
// JavaScript example
function greet(name) {
  const message = `Hello, ${name}!`;
  return message;
}

console.log(greet("World"));
```

```python
# Python example
from datetime import date

def greet(name: str) -> str:
    return f"Hello, {name}! Today is {date.today()}"

print(greet("World"))
```

```bash
# Bash example
echo "Hello" | tr '[:lower:]' '[:upper:]'
```

```json
{
  "name": "example",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "private": true
}
```

```diff
diff --git a/file.txt b/file.txt
index 83db48f..f735c20 100644
--- a/file.txt
+++ b/file.txt
@@ -1,3 +1,3 @@
-old line
+new line
 unchanged line
```

## Tables

Simple table:

| Animal | Sound  |
| ------ | ------ |
| Cat    | Meow   |
| Dog    | Bark   |

Alignment (GFM):

| Left | Center | Right |
| :--- | :----: | ----: |
| a    |   b    |     c |
| long text here | centered | 12345 |

## Horizontal Rules

---

***

___

## Links

- Inline link: [Eleventy](https://www.11ty.dev/)
- Reference link: [Markdown Guide][mdg]
- Autolink: <https://example.com>
- Email: <hello@example.com>

[mdg]: https://www.markdownguide.org/

## Images

Remote image with alt text:

![Random placeholder](https://picsum.photos/300/160)

Reference-style image:

![Eleventy Logo][11ty-logo]

[11ty-logo]: https://www.11ty.dev/img/built/eleventy-logo.png

## Footnotes

Here is a statement with a footnote.[^note]

Another footnote reference goes here.[^another]

[^note]: This is the first footnote text.
[^another]: And this is another footnote. Footnotes may or may not be rendered specially depending on the Markdown engine.

## Definition Lists

Term 1
: Definition A

Term 2
: Definition B, continued

Term with multiples
: First definition
: Second definition

> Note: Definition lists are not part of core Markdown; some engines support them, others render as paragraphs.

## Inline HTML

Use HTML for things Markdown doesn’t natively support:

Text with <sup>superscript</sup> and <sub>subscript</sub>,
keyboard input like <kbd>Cmd</kbd>+<kbd>K</kbd>,
and <mark>highlighted text</mark> using HTML tags.

## Details/Collapsible

<details>
  <summary>Click to expand</summary>
  <p>This content is hidden by default and revealed on click.</p>
  <pre><code>console.log('Details example');
</code></pre>
</details>

## Escaping

Escape special characters with backslashes: \*asterisks\*, \_underscores\_, \`backticks\`.

Show a literal backslash: \\

## Math (raw)

Inline math using delimiters (rendered as plain text unless a math plugin is enabled): \( a^2 + b^2 = c^2 \).

Block math using delimiters:

\[
E = mc^2
\]


## Longform Paragraphs

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Quisque elementum, odio sit amet venenatis suscipit, leo nunc feugiat mauris, in posuere ligula urna id velit. Integer vel imperdiet ex. Morbi id suscipit lectus. Donec a elementum lorem. Vestibulum feugiat, lorem ut lacinia faucibus, risus nisl iaculis dui, in feugiat sem ipsum a mauris. Curabitur eget arcu eros. Pellentesque a quam luctus, efficitur nibh a, ultrices dui.

Sed ut perspiciatis unde omnis iste natus error sit voluptatem accusantium doloremque laudantium, totam rem aperiam, eaque ipsa quae ab illo inventore veritatis et quasi architecto beatae vitae dicta sunt explicabo. Nemo enim ipsam voluptatem quia voluptas sit aspernatur aut odit aut fugit, sed quia consequuntur magni dolores eos qui ratione voluptatem sequi nesciunt.

At vero eos et accusamus et iusto odio dignissimos ducimus qui blanditiis praesentium voluptatum deleniti atque corrupti quos dolores et quas molestias excepturi sint occaecati cupiditate non provident, similique sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollitia animi, id est laborum et dolorum fuga. Et harum quidem rerum facilis est et expedita distinctio.

Nam libero tempore, cum soluta nobis est eligendi optio cumque nihil impedit quo minus id quod maxime placeat facere possimus, omnis voluptas assumenda est, omnis dolor repellendus. Temporibus autem quibusdam et aut officiis debitis aut rerum necessitatibus saepe eveniet ut et voluptates repudiandae sint et molestiae non recusandae.

Commit message:

Refactor Eleventy configuration: move Shiki plugin setup to .eleventy.js, add fallback for Prism, and update package.json; enhance layout with smooth scrolling for anchor links and improve CSS for theming and code highlighting.

src/posts/Markdown Reference.md, after:

---
layout: layout.njk
title: Markdown Reference
date: 2025-08-09
---

# Markdown Reference

A comprehensive, practical reference to see how common Markdown features render in this site.

- [Headings](#headings)
- [Paragraphs & Line Breaks](#paragraphs--line-breaks)
- [Emphasis](#emphasis)
- [Blockquotes](#blockquotes)
- [Lists](#lists)
- [Code](#code)
- [Tables](#tables)
- [Horizontal Rules](#horizontal-rules)
- [Links](#links)
- [Images](#images)
- [Footnotes](#footnotes)
- [Definition Lists](#definition-lists)
- [Inline HTML](#inline-html)
- [Details/Collapsible](#detailscollapsible)
- [Escaping](#escaping)
- [Math (raw)](#math-raw)
- [Longform Paragraphs](#longform-paragraphs)
- [Large Table](#large-table)
 - [Two-Column Table](#two-column-table)

## Headings

# H1 Heading
## H2 Heading
### H3 Heading
#### H4 Heading
##### H5 Heading
###### H6 Heading

## Paragraphs & Line Breaks

This is a paragraph of text. It should wrap naturally based on CSS.

This is another paragraph separated by a blank line.

Line breaks can be added with two spaces at the end of a line.  
This line should appear directly below the previous one.

## Emphasis

Regular text, with variations:

- Italic with asterisks: *italic*
- Italic with underscores: _italic_
- Bold with double asterisks: **bold**
- Bold with double underscores: __bold__
- Bold and italic: ***bold italic***
- Strikethrough (GFM): ~~strikethrough~~
- Inline code: `const answer = 42;`

## Blockquotes

> This is a blockquote. It can span multiple lines to form a single block.
>
> Add blank quote lines to separate paragraphs within a quote.

Nested blockquotes:

> Parent quote
>> Child quote
>>> Grandchild quote

## Lists

Unordered list:

- Item A
- Item B
  - Nested item B.1
  - Nested item B.2
- Item C

Ordered list (numbers can be arbitrary, but render sequentially):

1. First
1. Second
1. Third
   1. Third-A
   1. Third-B

Task list (GFM):

- [ ] To do item
- [x] Completed item
- [ ] Another item

## Code

Inline code has been shown above. Fenced code blocks with language hints below.

```javascript
// JavaScript example
function greet(name) {
  const message = `Hello, ${name}!`;
  return message;
}

console.log(greet("World"));
```

```python
# Python example
from datetime import date

def greet(name: str) -> str:
    return f"Hello, {name}! Today is {date.today()}"

print(greet("World"))
```

```bash
# Bash example
echo "Hello" | tr '[:lower:]' '[:upper:]'
```

```json
{
  "name": "example",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "private": true
}
```

```diff
diff --git a/file.txt b/file.txt
index 83db48f..f735c20 100644
--- a/file.txt
+++ b/file.txt
@@ -1,3 +1,3 @@
-old line
+new line
 unchanged line
```

## Tables

Simple table:

| Animal | Sound  |
| ------ | ------ |
| Cat    | Meow   |
| Dog    | Bark   |

Alignment (GFM):

| Left | Center | Right |
| :--- | :----: | ----: |
| a    |   b    |     c |
| long text here | centered | 12345 |

### Large Table

Four columns and three rows with multi-sentence content in each cell.

| Overview | Details | Considerations | Outcome |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| This section introduces the main idea of the row. It provides quick context and sets expectations. Clarity and brevity are prioritized here. | This cell expands on the topic with supporting information. It adds examples and gives the reader concrete anchors. The tone remains neutral and descriptive. | Here we discuss trade-offs and caveats. Edge cases and constraints are highlighted to guide decisions. Readers should weigh costs against benefits. | The concluding cell summarizes what happens next. It names the decision and calls out follow-ups. Success criteria are briefly reiterated.
| The second row focuses on a variation of the theme. It contrasts with the first to show boundaries. Similarities are noted to reduce cognitive load. | Additional depth is provided with sequential steps. Assumptions are stated so the flow is reproducible. Alternatives are referenced for comparison. | Risks and mitigations are outlined succinctly. Failure modes are listed alongside detection methods. Owners and timelines are suggested. | The result proposes a clean path forward. It defines a checkpoint and a review cadence. Any blockers are documented transparently.
| This final row is intentionally verbose for wrapping tests. It ensures multi-sentence content behaves well across devices. Typography and spacing should remain readable. | Extra narrative stresses paragraph-like content inside cells. Punctuation and capitalization mirror normal writing. Links and inline code can appear too. | Performance and accessibility are considered. Keyboard navigation and screen reader cues should be preserved. Mobile columns may need stacking. | The outcome emphasizes maintainability and clarity. It summarizes learnings and closes the loop. Future adjustments are easy to apply.

### Two-Column Table

Two columns with multi-sentence cells to test wrapping and spacing.

| Column A | Column B |
| --- | --- |
| This left cell offers a short narrative. It provides context in two to three sentences so wrapping is visible. The tone stays neutral. | The right cell mirrors the style while varying the content. It validates consistent spacing and alignment. Formatting should remain balanced.
| Another example appears here to compare lengths across rows. Slightly longer phrasing helps exercise line breaks and hyphenation where available. | Complementary text balances the row and avoids dominance. It ensures readability across screen sizes and zoom levels for accessibility.
| Final row demonstrates stability under repeated patterns. Typography should remain readable and even, with adequate line-height and padding. | Closing text confirms that two-column layouts behave well. It focuses on clarity and rhythm of paragraphs for comfortable scanning.

## Horizontal Rules

---

***

___

## Links

- Inline link: [Eleventy](https://www.11ty.dev/)
- Reference link: [Markdown Guide][mdg]
- Autolink: <https://example.com>
- Email: <hello@example.com>

[mdg]: https://www.markdownguide.org/

## Images

Remote image with alt text:

![Random placeholder](https://picsum.photos/300/160)

Reference-style image:

![Eleventy Logo][11ty-logo]

[11ty-logo]: https://www.11ty.dev/img/built/eleventy-logo.png

## Footnotes

Here is a statement with a footnote.[^note]

Another footnote reference goes here.[^another]

[^note]: This is the first footnote text.
[^another]: And this is another footnote. Footnotes may or may not be rendered specially depending on the Markdown engine.

## Definition Lists

Term 1
: Definition A

Term 2
: Definition B, continued

Term with multiples
: First definition
: Second definition

> Note: Definition lists are not part of core Markdown; some engines support them, others render as paragraphs.

## Inline HTML

Use HTML for things Markdown doesn’t natively support:

Text with <sup>superscript</sup> and <sub>subscript</sub>,
keyboard input like <kbd>Cmd</kbd>+<kbd>K</kbd>,
and <mark>highlighted text</mark> using HTML tags.

## Details/Collapsible

<details>
  <summary>Click to expand</summary>
  <p>This content is hidden by default and revealed on click.</p>
  <pre><code>console.log('Details example');
</code></pre>
</details>

## Escaping

Escape special characters with backslashes: \*asterisks\*, \_underscores\_, \`backticks\`.

Show a literal backslash: \\

## Math (raw)

Inline math using delimiters (rendered as plain text unless a math plugin is enabled): \( a^2 + b^2 = c^2 \).

Block math using delimiters:

\[
E = mc^2
\]


## Longform Paragraphs

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Quisque elementum, odio sit amet venenatis suscipit, leo nunc feugiat mauris, in posuere ligula urna id velit. Integer vel imperdiet ex. Morbi id suscipit lectus. Donec a elementum lorem. Vestibulum feugiat, lorem ut lacinia faucibus, risus nisl iaculis dui, in feugiat sem ipsum a mauris. Curabitur eget arcu eros. Pellentesque a quam luctus, efficitur nibh a, ultrices dui.

Sed ut perspiciatis unde omnis iste natus error sit voluptatem accusantium doloremque laudantium, totam rem aperiam, eaque ipsa quae ab illo inventore veritatis et quasi architecto beatae vitae dicta sunt explicabo. Nemo enim ipsam voluptatem quia voluptas sit aspernatur aut odit aut fugit, sed quia consequuntur magni dolores eos qui ratione voluptatem sequi nesciunt.

At vero eos et accusamus et iusto odio dignissimos ducimus qui blanditiis praesentium voluptatum deleniti atque corrupti quos dolores et quas molestias excepturi sint occaecati cupiditate non provident, similique sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollitia animi, id est laborum et dolorum fuga. Et harum quidem rerum facilis est et expedita distinctio.

Nam libero tempore, cum soluta nobis est eligendi optio cumque nihil impedit quo minus id quod maxime placeat facere possimus, omnis voluptas assumenda est, omnis dolor repellendus. Temporibus autem quibusdam et aut officiis debitis aut rerum necessitatibus saepe eveniet ut et voluptates repudiandae sint et molestiae non recusandae.
